Add documentation and tutorials. (#14)
SydneyAstrophotonicInstrumentationLab/AMICAL: README.md

> <a href="https://github.com/SydneyAstrophotonicInstrumentationLab/AMICAL"><img
> src="amical/internal_data/amical_logo.png" width="300"></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a href="https://github.com/SydneyAstrophotonicInstrumentationLab/AMICAL">
<img src="amical/internal_data/amical_logo.png" width="300"></a>
```

```python
print(bs.keys(), bs.mask.keys())
```

### Step 3: calibrate V2 & CP

Closure phases and square visibilities suffer from systematic terms, caused by
the wavefront fluctuations (temporal, polychromatic sources, non-zero size mask,
etc.). To calibrate aperture masking data, these quantities are measured on
identified point source calibrator stars. In practice, we subtract the
calibrator signal from the raw closure phases and normalize the target
visibilities by the calibrator’s visibilities.

```python
cal = amical.calibrate(bs_t, bs_c) # where bs_t and bs_c are the results from amical.extract_bs() on the target and calibrator respectively.
```

If several calibrators are available, the calibration factors are computed using
a weighted average to account for variations between sources. In this case,
`bs_c` will be a list of results from `amical.extract_bs()`. The extra errors
induced are then quadratically added to the calibrated uncertainties.

During the calibration procedure, a second data selection can be performed to
reject bad calibrator-source pairs using a sigma-clipping approach (`clip`=True,
using a threshold value in sigma `sig_thres`=2).

> ```python             }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

them as the standard oifits file with amical.save().

```python
amical.show(cal, cmax=1, vmin=0.97, vmax=1.01)
```

<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/results_show.png" width="100%"/>
</p>

By default, we assume that the u-v plan is not oriented on the detector
(north-up, east-left) with `pa`=0 in degrees. The true position angle is
normally computed during the step 2 (not yet available for all instruments) and
so need to be given as input with `pa=bs.infos.pa`.

Few other parameters are available to set the axe limites (`vmax`, `vmin`,
`cmax`), set units (`unit`, `unit_cp`), log scale (`setlog`), flags
(`true_flag_v2`, `true_flag_cp`), etc. Check [oifits.py](amical/oifits.py) for
details.

```python
oifits_file = 'my_oifits_results.oifits'

amical.save(cal, oifits_file, pa=bs_t.infos.pa)
```

If you want to save the independent CP only, you can add `ind_hole=0`
(0..n_holes-1) to select only the CP with the given aperture index. The others
parameters can be check in the docstrings of [amical.save()](amical/oifits.py).

> Note: If data are extracted from a fake target, you have to add
> `fake_obj`=True to ignore the SIMBAD search.

### Step 4: analyse with CANDID and Pymask

> Finally, you can fit the data using CANDID or Pymask (two independant and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you can fit the data using CANDID or Pymask (two independent and
```

facilities:
[NIRISS](https://jwst-docs.stsci.edu/near-infrared-imager-and-slitless-spectrograph)
on the JWST (first scientific interferometer operating in space),
[SPHERE](https://www.eso.org/sci/facilities/paranal/instruments/sphere.html) and
[VISIR](https://www.eso.org/sci/facilities/paranal/instruments/visir.html) from
the European Very Large Telescope (VLT) and
[VAMPIRES](https://www.naoj.org/Projects/SCEXAO/scexaoWEB/030openuse.web/040vampires.web/indexm.html)
from SUBARU telescope (and more to come).

We focused our efforts to propose a user-friendly interface, though different
sub-classes allowing to (1) **Clean** the reduced datacube from the standard
instrument pipelines, (2) **Extract** the interferometrical quantities
(visibilities and closure phases) using a Fourier sampling approach and (3)
**Calibrate** those quantities to remove the instrumental biases.

Looking for a quickstart into AMICAL? Just have a look to the example scripts
made for [NIRISS](example_NIRISS.py) and [SPHERE](example_NIRISS.py).

In addition (4), we include two external packages called
[CANDID](https://github.com/amerand/CANDID) and

> [Pymask](https://github.com/AnthonyCheetham/pymask) to **analyse** the final

Reviewer: packaging issue: these _vendored_ libraries should appear as such in the directory tree. Use a `vendor` directory and put them there.

legal issue: you need to copy their respective LICENCES. I checked and saw that CANDID doesn't have one, so it's not actually clear you are _allowed_ to vendor it. Please ask its maintainers for permission at the very least, and lookup how you should acknowledge that permission properly in AMICAL

outputs obtained from a binary-like sources (star-star or star-planet). We
interfaced these stand-alone packages with AMICAL to quickly estimate our

> scientific results (e.g.: separation, position angle, contrast ratio, contrast

Reviewer: ```suggestion
scientific results (e.g., separation, position angle, contrast ratio, contrast
```

limits, etc.) using different approaches (chi2 grid, MCMC, see

> [example_analysis.py](example_analysis.py) for details).

Reviewer: same as above

> ## Tutorial

Reviewer: Maybe this tutorial doesn't belong in the readme

> In this tutorial, we will go through the different possibilities of AMICAL. You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will go through different features of AMICAL. You
```

can find a detailed description of the principal functions and associated
parameters in their docstrings (easily accessible with good editors, e.g.:

> vscode).

Reviewer: You don't need to adverstise how to read docstrings. In fact, docstrings are meant to be accessible from outside text editors. The basic Python REPL offers a `help()` function to inspect docstrings in an interactive session.
IPython/Jupyter supports the `?` suffix that does the same thing.
Point is: if you think your users need to open the source code to understand how to use it, you're in trouble. The good news is, if you already have docstrings, it's (maybe) not the case.

- [Step 1: clean and select data](#step-1-clean-and-select-data)
- [Step 2: extract observables](#step-2-extract-observables)
- [Step 3: calibrate V2 & CP](#step-3-calibrate-v2--cp)
- [Step 4: analyse with CANDID and
  Pymask](#step-4-analyse-with-candid-and-pymask)

> To begin, we just need to import AMICAL library:

Reviewer: In the following, we'll assume you imported the library as

```python
import amical
```

### Step 1: clean and select data

The major part of data coming from general pipelines (applying dark, flat,
distorsion, etc.) are not enought compliant with the Fourier extracting method
developed within AMICAL.

> The first step of AMICAL consists to clean the data in different way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step of running AMICAL consists in cleaning the data in different ways:
```

- Remove residual sky background (`sky`=True, `r1`, `dr`)
- Crop and center the image (`isz`, `f_kernel`=3),
- Apply windowing (`apod`, `window`),
- Apply bad pixels correction (`bad_map`=None, `add_bad`=[],
  `remove_bad`=False).

We use a 2d gaussian interpolation to replace the bad pixels (same as

> [here](https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/convolution/)). The input `bad_map` is

Reviewer: honest question: input to what ?
(plus, you probably mean "argument", rather than "input")

a 2D array (same shape as the data) filled with 0 and 1 where 1 stands for a bad
pixel (hot, cosmic, etc.). Instrument pipelines generally come with bad pixels
map generator, but you can add an unlimited number of bad pixels as the input
list `add_bad` (e.g.: \[[24, 08], [31, 41]])).

```python
nrm_file = 'my_nrm_data.fits'

clean_param = {'isz': 69, # final cropped image size [pix]
               'r1': 31, # Inner radius to compute sky [pix]
               'dr': 2, # Outer radius (r2 = r1 + dr) 
               'apod': True, # If True, apply windowing
               'window': 32 # FWHM of the super-gaussian (for windowing)
              }

# Firsly, check if the input parameters are valid

> amical.check_data_params(nrm_file, **clean_param)

Reviewer: This should not appear in the tutorial: this validation should be done internally.

```

<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/cleaning_params.png" width="50%"/>
</p>

If the cleaning parameters seem well located (cyan cross on the centre, sky
radius outside the fringes pattern, etc.), we can apply the cleaning step to the
data.

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

cube_cleaned = amical.select_clean_data(nrm_file, **clean_param, clip=True, clip_fact=0.5)
```

During the cleaning step, you can decide to apply a lucky imaging selection

> (`clip`=True) to accumulate only the best frames in the cube (based on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`clip=True`) to accumulate only the best frames in the cube (based on the
```

integrated fluxes compared to the median: threshold = median(fluxes) -

> `clip_fact` x std(fluxes)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`clip_fact` * std(fluxes)).
```

<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/clipping.png" width="80%"/>
</p>

### Step 2: extract observables

The second step is the core of AMICAL: we use the Fourier sampling approach to
extract the interferometric observables (visibilities and closure phases).

> All the challenge when you play with the NRM data is to find the correct

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The whole challenge when playing with the NRM data is to find the correct
```

position of each baseline in the Fourier transform. To do so, we implemented 4
different sampling methods (`peakmethod` = ('unique', 'square', 'gauss', 'fft'))
to exploit information spread beyond just the _u_, _v_ positions.

<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/fft.png" width="60%"/>
</p>
<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/peakmethod.png" width="80%"/>
</p>

> Based on NIRISS and SPHERE dataset analysis, we recommend using the **fft**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on NIRISS and SPHERE dataset analysis, we recommend using the `'fft'`
```

method (but feel free to test the other methods for your specific case!). The
expected baseline locations on the detector are computed using the mask
coordinates, the wavelength and the pixel size. In some cases, the mask is not
perfectly aligned with the detector and so requires to be rotated

> (`theta_detector` = 0) or centrally scaled (`scaling_uv` = 1). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`theta_detector = 0`) or centrally scaled (`scaling_uv = 1`). 
```

With AMICAL, the mask coordinates, the wavelengths, the pixel size and the

> target name are normally determined using the fits header informations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
target name are normally read from the fits file header.
```

> Otherwise, you will need to give `filtname`,`instrum` and `targetname` to
> determine those information from the AMICAL internal database
> ([get_infos_obs.py](amical/get_infos_obs.py)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case where headers are not compliant, you will need to provide the following keyword arguments: `filtname`, `instrum` and `targetname`.
```

```python
params_ami = {"peakmethod": "fft",
              "maskname": "g7", # 7 holes mask of NIRISS
              }

> bs = amical.extract_bs(cube_cleaned, file_t, **params_ami)

Reviewer: Unless you mean to reuse this dictionary later in the tutorial, there is no need for it.

```

> > Note: Other parameters of `amical.extract_bs()` are rarely modified but you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Other parameters in `amical.extract_bs()` are rarely modified but you
```

> can check the docstrings for details

> > ([bispect.py](amical/mf_pipeline/bispect.py)).

Reviewer: again, users shouldn't have to read the source code to know how to use stuff

The object `bs` stores the raw observables (`bs.vis2`, `bs.e_vis2`, `bs.cp`,
`bs.e_cp`), the u-v coordinates and wavelength (`bs.u`, `bs.v`, `bs.wl`), the
baseline lengths (`bs.bl`, `bs.bl_cp`), information relative to the used mask
(`bs.mask`), the computed matrices and statistic (`bs.matrix`) and the important

> information (`bs.infos`). The .mask, .infos and .matrix are also class with
> various quantities.

Reviewer: It's not very compelling but at least now it's technically correct.
```suggestion
information (`bs.infos`). The `mask`, `infos` and `matrix` attributes also hold various data.
```

```python

> print bs.keys(), bs.mask.keys() # for details

Reviewer: Corrected for python 3...
```suggestion
print(bs.keys(), bs.mask.keys())
```
note that if `bs` and `bs.mask` behave as a builtin dicts, I expect this to print something like
```
dict_keys([...]), dict_keys([...])
```
which is pretty ugly

```

### Step 3: calibrate V2 & CP

Closure phases and square visibilities suffer from systematic terms, caused by
the wavefront fluctuations (temporal, polychromatic sources, non-zero size mask,
etc.). To calibrate aperture masking data, these quantities are measured on
identified point source calibrator stars. In practice, we subtract the
calibrator signal from the raw closure phases and normalize the target
visibilities by the calibrator’s visibilities.

> ```python             }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

> cal = amical.calibrate(bs_t, bs_c) # where bs_t and bs_c are the results from amical.extract_bs() on the target and calibrator respectively.

Reviewer: don't put that in a comment, run the actual code

induced are then quadratically added to the calibrated uncertainties.

During the calibration procedure, a second data selection can be performed to
reject bad calibrator-source pairs using a sigma-clipping approach (`clip`=True,
using a threshold value in sigma `sig_thres`=2).

```python             }
cal = amical.calibrate(bs_t, [bs_c1, bs_c2, bs_c3], clip=True, sig_thres=2) 
```

> Note: For ground based facilities, two additional corrections can be applied
> on V2 to deal with potential piston between holes (`apply_phscorr`=True) or
> seeing/wind shacking variations (`apply_atmcorr`=True). This functionnality
> was only tested on old dataset from the previous IDL pipeline, and so needs to
> be cautiously used (seem to not working on SPHERE data).

> Note: You can decide to normalize the CP uncertaintities by sqrt(n_holes/3)
> take into account the dependant vs. independant closure phases
> (`normalize_err_indep`=True).

Once again, `cal` is an object containing the calibrated observables
(`cal.vis2`, `cal.e_vis2`, etc.), u-v coordinates (`cal.u`, `cal.v`, `cal.u1`,
`cal.v2`, etc.), wavelength (`cal.wl`) and the output objects from step 2
(`cal.raw_t`, `cal.raw_c`).

> You can now visualize the calibrated observables with amical.show() and save

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now visualize the calibrated observables with `amical.show()` and save
```

them as the standard oifits file with amical.save().

```python
amical.show(cal, cmax=1, vmin=0.97, vmax=1.01)
```

<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/results_show.png" width="100%"/>
</p>

By default, we assume that the u-v plan is not oriented on the detector

> (north-up, east-left) with `pa`=0 in degrees. The true position angle is

Reviewer: I read this 3 times and still don't get what you mean.

normally computed during the step 2 (not yet available for all instruments) and

> so need to be given as input with `pa`=`bs.infos.pa`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so need to be given as input with `pa=bs.infos.pa`.
```

Few other parameters are available to set the axe limites (`vmax`, `vmin`,
`cmax`), set units (`unit`, `unit_cp`), log scale (`setlog`), flags
(`true_flag_v2`, `true_flag_cp`), etc. Check [oifits.py](amical/oifits.py) for
details.

```python
oifits_file = 'my_oifits_results.oifits'

amical.save(cal, oifits_file, pa=bs_t.infos.pa)
```

> If you want to save the independant CP only, you can add `ind_hole`=0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to save the independent CP only, you can add `ind_hole=0`
```

parameters can be check in the docstrings of [amical.save()](amical/oifits.py).

> Note: If data are extracted from a fake target, you have to add
> `fake_obj`=True to ignore the SIMBAD search.

### Step 4: analyse with CANDID and Pymask

Finally, you can fit the data using CANDID or Pymask (two independant and
stand-alone packages).

First, you can use CANDID to fit the data using a grid search approach.

```python
inputdata = 'Saveoifits/my_oifits_results.oifits'

param_candid = {'rmin': 20,  # inner radius of the grid
                'rmax': 250,  # outer radius of the grid
                'step': 50,  # grid sampling
                'ncore': 12  # core for multiprocessing
                }

fit1 = amical.candid_grid(inputdata, **param_candid, diam=0, doNotFit=['diam*'])
```

<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/example_fit_candid.png" width="80%"/>
</p>

And an estimate of the contrast limit.

```python
cr_candid = amical.candid_cr_limit(inputdata, **param_candid, fitComp=fit1['comp'])
```

<p align="center">
<img src="Figures/example_crlimits_candid.png" width="60%"/>
</p>

For a detailled description and the use of Pymask package (using the MCMC

> approach), you can check the [example_analysis.py](example_analysis.py) script.

Reviewer: same remark as above
